
-------------------------------------------------
Boost Your Self-Worth: 70+ Inspiring Self-Worth Quotes for a Confident You
70+ Empowering Self Worth Quotes for Building Confidence

What is self-worth?

Self-worth is the conviction that you matter independent of what you achieve. The reflections below explore how to build it without falling into the trap of constantly proving it.

In a world that frequently assesses our value based on external factors like appearance, achievements, and social status, many of us live disconnected from our inherent self-worth. The truth is that no matter what you possess, look like, or achieve, you are unconditionally worthy of all the good things that life has to offer. Independent of external judgments, mistakes, or achievements, you hold innate value and importance.

To reconnect with your innate worthiness, self worth quotes can be a supportive tool in your personal development toolkit. These words of wisdom remind us of what we already know deep down: that we, just as we are, are enough.

By strengthening our fundamental belief in our inherent value, we set the stage for a life of inner strength, confidence, and contentment. So, may these quotes of self worth support you on your journey, bringing you home to a solid foundation of self worth.


    “Who would you be if you trusted the basic goodness and beauty that lives through you?” – Tara Brach
    “You are worth the quiet moment. You are worth the deeper breath. You are worth the time it takes to slow down, be still, and rest.” – Morgan Harper Nichols
    “I’ve learned that loving your self requires a courage unlike any other. It requires us to believe in and stay loyal to something no one else can see that keeps us in the world – our own self worth.” – Mark Nepo
    “You are loved just for being who you are, just for existing. You don’t have to do anything to earn it.” – Ram Dass
    “Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, ‘Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous?’ Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world.” – Marianne Williamson
    “You are not a drop in the ocean. You are the entire ocean in a drop.” – Rumi
    “Wanting to be someone else is a waste of the person you are.” – Marilyn Monroe
    “You are enough just as you are.” – Meghan Markle
    “To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson
    “Believe in yourself and all that you are.” – Christian D. Larson
    “Don’t ask yourself what the world needs. Ask yourself what makes you come alive.” – Howard Thurman
    “Seek to be whole, not perfect.” – Oprah
    “Our worth is inherent, and; therefore, is never on the negotiation table.” – J.S. Wolfe
    “There is something wonderfully bold and liberating about saying yes to our entire imperfect and messy life.” – Tara Brach
    “The deeper you love yourself, the more the universe will affirm your worth.” – Alan Cohen
    “Self-worth comes from one thing – thinking that you are worthy.” – Wayne Dyer
    “Imperfection is not our personal problem – it is a natural part of existing.” – Tara Brach
    “We are each gifted in a unique and important way. It is our privilege and our adventure to discover our own special light.” – Mary Dunbar
    “One of the best guides to how to be self-loving is to give ourselves the love we are often dreaming about receiving from others.” – Bell Hooks
    “Talk to yourself like you would to someone you love.” – Brené Brown
    “She remembered who she was and the game changed.” – Lalah Deliah
    “Invest in yourself, it pays the best interest.” – Benjamin Franklin
    “You don’t need to be accepted by others. You need to accept yourself.” – Bindi Irwin
    “You’re imperfect, and you’re wired for struggle, but you are worthy of love and belonging.” – Brene Brown
    “There are no prerequisites to worthiness. You are born worthy.” – Unknown
    “To love yourself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.” – Oscar Wilde
    “You are not here to shrink down to less but to blossom into more.” – Oprah Winfrey
    “You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.” – C.S. Lewis
    “You are the master of your destiny. You can influence, direct and control your own environment. You can make your life what you want it to be.” – Napoleon Hill
    “You are capable of so much more than you think.” – Unknown
    “You are not what happened to you. You are what you choose to become.” – Carl Gustav Jung
    “Embrace the glorious mess that you are.” – Elizabeth Gilbert
    “Tell yourself how wonderful you are, how great you are. Tell yourself how much you love yourself.” – Don Miguel Ruiz
    “You are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.” – A.A. Milne
    “If you are always trying to be normal, you will never know how amazing you can be.” – Dr. Maya Angelou

Boost Your Self-Worth: 70+ Inspiring Self-Worth Quotes for a Confident You

    “The reward for conformity is that everyone likes you but yourself.” – Rita Mae Brown
    “You are worthy of the space you take up in this world.” – Unknown
    “Your self-worth grows when you fight for something you love.” – Maxime Lagacé
    “The worst loneliness is to not be comfortable with yourself.” – Mark Twain
    “Know your worth, hold your own power, be you.” – Morgan Harper Nichols
    “You are worthy of the love and respect you give so freely to others.” – Unknown
    “You are deserving of the love and respect you seek.” – Unknown
    “Don’t dilute yourself for any person or any reason. You are enough! Be unapologetically you.” – Steve Maraboli
    “You are the sky. Everything else is just the weather.” – Pema Chödrön
    “You are the architect of your own destiny.” – Swami Sivananda
    “You are the universe, expressing itself as a human for a little while.” – Eckhart Tolle
    “Only make decisions that support your self-image, self-esteem, and self-worth.” – Oprah Winfrey
    “You are not stuck where you are unless you decide to be.” – Wayne W. Dyer
    “Too many people overvalue what they are not and undervalue what they are.” – Malcolm S. Forbes
    “Until you value yourself, you won’t value your time. Until you value your time, you will not do anything with it.” M. Scott Peck
    “You are allowed to be both a masterpiece and a work in progress.” – Sophia Bush
    “A champion is defined not by their wins but by how they can recover when they fall.” – Serena Williams
    “Your worth is not determined by the opinions of others.” – Unknown
    “Respect yourself, love yourself, because there has never been a person like you and there never will be again.” – Osho
    “You alone are enough. You have nothing to prove to anyone.” – Maya Angelou
    “To love yourself as you are is a miracle, and to seek yourself is to have found yourself, for now. And now is all we have, and love is who we are.” – Anne Lamott
    “Much of spiritual life is self-acceptance, maybe all of it.” – Jack Kornfield
    “You are not your mistakes. They are what you did. Not who you are.” – Lisa Lieberman-Wang
    “How you love yourself is how you teach others to love you.” – Rupi Kaur
    “The problem is you’re afraid to acknowledge your own beauty. You’re too busy holding onto your unworthiness.” – Ram Dass
    “You are a gift to this world, and you deserve to be treated with love and respect.” – Unknown
    “Love yourself enough to set boundaries. Your time and energy are precious. You get to choose how you use it. You teach people how to treat you by deciding what you will and won’t accept.” – Anna Taylor
    “The real difficulty is to overcome how you think about yourself.” – Maya Angelou
    “Self-love has very little to do with how you feel about your outer self. It’s about accepting all of yourself.” – Tyra Banks
    “Lighten up on yourself. No one is perfect. Gently accept your humanness.” – Deborah Day
    “Put yourself at the top of your to-do list every single day and the rest will fall into place.” – Unknown
    “To be beautiful means to be yourself. You don’t need to be accepted by others. You need to accept yourself.” – Thich Nhat Hanh
    “The most powerful relationship you will ever have is the relationship with yourself.” – Steve Maraboli
    “The more you value yourself, the healthier your boundaries are.” – Lorraine Nilon
    “Think highly of yourself because the world takes you at your own estimate.” – Kurt Hahn
    “When you recover or discover something that nourishes your soul and brings joy, care enough about yourself to make room for it in your life.” – Jean Shinoda Bolen
    “To love yourself right now, just as you are, is to give yourself heaven. Don’t wait until you die. If you wait, you die now. If you love, you live now.” – Alan Cohen
    “Accept yourself, love yourself, and keep moving forward. If you want to fly, you have to give up what weighs you down.” – Roy T. Bennett
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------